1 Explain what data lineage is ?

Data lineage is a map of the data journey, which includes its origin, each stop along the way, and an explanation on how and why the data has moved over time. The data lineage can be documented visually from source to eventual destination — noting stops, deviations, or changes along the way. The process simplifies tracking for operational aspects like day-to-day use and error resolution.

2 Have you ever proposed changes to improve data reliability and quality? Please describe what these were. Were they eventually implemented? If not, why not? 

You could talk about the surveys and data collections we did in transportation projects and actions we took for reducing the bias from the target sample. In addition, the cleaning and preparation of data improves its quality.

3 What would you say are the top three benefits of programming with Python? Have you coded with Python in your personal projects? If yes, please describe the project 

	•	Presence of Third Party Modules
	•	Extensive Support Libraries
	•	Open Source and Community Development
	•	Learning Ease and Support Available
	•	User-friendly Data Structures
	•	Productivity and Speed

4 How would you test a Python program or component? 

Before you dive into writing tests, you’ll want to first make a couple of decisions:
	1.	What do you want to test?
	2.	Are you writing a unit test or an integration test?
Then the structure of a test should loosely follow this workflow:
	1.	Create your inputs
	2.	Execute the code being tested, capturing the output
	3.	Compare the output with an expected result

5 What are python modules? Name some commonly used built-in modules in Python? 

A module allows you to logically organize your Python code. Grouping related code into a module makes the code easier to understand and use. A module is a Python object with arbitrarily named attributes that you can bind and reference.
Simply, a module is a file consisting of Python code. A module can define functions, classes and variables. A module can also include runnable code.

Samples of builtin modules: Datetime, dsv, collections, http, json, random, itertools, urllib, decimal, threading 

6 Is python case sensitive? 

Yes, it is. For example: a = 10 and A=10 would be two different variables although having same values.

7 What advantages do NumPy arrays offer over Python lists? 

The answer is performance. Numpy data structures perform better in:
	•	Size - Numpy data structures take up less space
	•	Performance - they have a need for speed and are faster than lists
	•	Functionality - SciPy and NumPy have optimized functions such as linear algebra operations built in.
Numpy arrays have much better performance in terms of speed (processing) and memory utilization.

8 What are Python's dictionaries? How will you create a dictionary in python? How will you get all the values from the dictionary? Which Python libraries would you utilize for proficient data processing? 
	
Python dictionary is an unordered collection of items. Each item of a dictionary has a key/value pair.
Dictionaries are optimized to retrieve values when the key is known.
A = dict(key1=blah, key2=blahblah, ….) or A = {‘key1’: blah, ‘key2’: blahblah, ….}
We get the values from dict using its keys. A[‘key1’]
Libraries like Pandas, numpy, scipy, scikit-learn, ….

9 What are some basic differences between Python version 2 and Python version 3? 

Python 3 syntax is simpler and easily understandable whereas Python 2 syntax is comparatively difficult to understand.

10 What version of Python are you most comfortable with and why? 

Python 3

11 Name some of the most widespread python libraries used for machine learning/ data science, also indicate which ones you have used and the project/initiative where you used it/them 

TensorFlow, Keras, PyTorch, Sklearn, Pandas, numpy, scipy, and visualization libraries like matplotlib, poorly, bokeh, altar, seaboard

12 How do you iterate over an array/ item in python? 

Assumming that "L" is a list like: L = [1, 2, 3, 4] or it is a numpy array: L = np.array([1, 2, 3, 4],) or a general iterator:
for item in L:
	print(item) / use item for computations 

13 What Python development environment (IDE) do you prefer to use? 

I prefer VSCode as it is fast, responsive, light, and is basically designed to be customized based on the needs of the programmer/data scientist. Also, it is being updated regularly and it provides several tools as installable packages for all specific needs.

14 Explain the difference between L1 and L2 regularization methods.

L1 : Also known as Lasso it adds absolute magnitude of the penalty. L1 ensures that less important variables are reduced to zero
L2 : Also known as Ridge it adds square magnitude of the penalty. L2 ensures that less important variables are reduced to very small value close to zero but not zero